OneD_hillslope
==============

A numerical model of a one dimensional hillslope written in c++.

This repository includes a c++ object, OneDHillslope, and various driver files for running hillslope simulations.

The object solves sediment transport following the Roering et al. (1999) sediment flux law:
q(s) = -DS/( 1 - (S/S_c)^2 )
This flux is inserted into the continuity equation and then nondimensionalised using the scheme of 
Roering et al. (2008). 
The resulting governing equation is then solved implicitly. 

Cosmogenics
------------

The model also tracks particles that contain information about the concentration of cosmogenic nuclides such as 10Be and 26Al. 

Plotting functions
-------------------

Python plotting scripts are also included to visualise the model output. 

Generating Figures
--------------------------

These programs and scripts have been used to generate figures in a manuscript submitted to Earth Surface Processes and Landforms. 

Figures 1 and 2 were generated from analytical solutions in Mathematica and are not available here.

Important! To compile these you need to have the GNU debugger installed on your computer, or alternatively remove the -pg flags from the makefiles. 

Figure 3 was generated by running EsRs_plot.cpp (make with make -f EsRs_plot.make). The data is then visualised with data/Plot_perturbER_profiles.py (this script generates both figures 3 and 4). 

Figure 4 was generated by running Test_hillslope.cpp (make with make -f Test_hillslope.make). The data is then visualised with data/Plot_perturbER_profiles.py (this script generates both figures 3 and 4). 

Figure 5 was generated by running CRN_oneD_hs.cpp (make with make -f CRN_oneD_hs.make). The data is then visualised with data/Plot_appD.py. 

Figure 6 was generated using data/relax_from_that.py

Figures 7, 8 9, and 10 are generated by scripts in other repositories; see manuscript for the correct repositories. 
